go thank you
not according okay so welcome to the he
visit twelfth yes the qua permutation
sync for August 12th I I guess first up
on the agenda initiatives yeah so
release process yeah there's a ball
draft assigned to the blog post those
are all up hey yeah the about post
should hopefully well it'll be out in
2nd the signs were out and the dines
were looking pretty good but well
haven't you one final view of those so
today maybe tomorrow will say yeah
JSF s is your point three seven isn't
released and I want is saying that he
will be the release process for @jseifer
fest to manifest your role in all the
list should okay there are no updates to
the testing info as far as I know what
should I take the back that's totally a
lie there are quite suggesting it for
process rule has made a really wonderful
document for testing infra I find it
here is the design doc is this just his
proposal for like how happy should fit
together
ideally we can reuse parts of existing
systems just make this work but he
strike trying to come up with a very
generic system that can kind of like
supersede us where you just like
plugging in custom doctor I'm just
plugging a custom test parcels kind of
stuff I
so next up garbage collection and
pinning any updates there I don't mix up
nope no it's okay i delegated routing
released in JSF FS 0.37 yeah that can
probably come off now okay I got I mean
delegated routing as a thing
Oh as a thing gossips of Vasco Josh was
out but we've got Jay SMTP Oh 26
released last week and that has support
for Qasim sub we just need to finish up
an open PR 2gs ipfs to roll that as the
default router then subdomain gateways I
guess this is kind of related but we
have a PR for a DNS over HTTPS which
will allow us to make ID this link
significantly more secure not entirely
with this but this is the whole point of
such my thing is for security a big part
is so just gonna stick that there and I
will link to this in second we're
running into some issues that we can
also talk about later at the call okay
consolidation yeah so jisub PDP
consolidation is almost done there are a
couple modules that I probably won't
include in this round is like the NAP
manager and keychain one because nap
manager isn't actually done yet and then
keychain is actually not currently in
the p2p it's kind of standalone by
itself and it's only being used right
now in JSI BFS so I'll probably wait to
do that as a separate one so that
because that will cause some API chains
yeah but I should be done with that this
week and Jacob you were up again
industry basically yeah yep so going
through
an example of distributed signaling over
a relay as I've been going through that
I've been finding miscellaneous issues
like J s multi adder wasn't handling
circuit relay peered when you're
announcing you're really on there so
just fixing stuff as going through with
that one thing that I'm not tackling
right now is distributed ice but we're
probably going to need to take care of
that at some point because otherwise if
we just use like the default Google I
servers that becomes very easy to block
in places like China ice is discovering
your own external dress right what's
that I use discovering your external
address yes yes so we have that with
AlterNet right which I think may be
sufficient in many cases for like you
just as you can to be for servers
various places like you can just ask
them hey what is my external address and
it'll start dialing back to you so I
think we may be covered there it's not
really it's distributed it's like we
still like you have to find these
servers can be tricky but yeah another
thing that she go into his header is
these Oh has had this PR up or spec TR
about yeah please
this is effectively I know what does it
call I guess stun gave the right term
over relay we're lucky yeah it's trying
to figure out her basically you can X um
one of a relight and then they tell you
like or than you coordinating miss
connect to try to use like I don't they
said a bit or I get these out so he's
open to bypass routers so you should
read that anyone was talking could read
that and like try to it's all they they
concern there is that it does require
establishing a phone connection first it
shouldn't be that expensive if we're
already using relays maybe phone with
our current relay system is it doesn't
scale well then we yeah I think one of
the nice we're gonna look at doing is
well replace the signaling servers that
we have long term for J
i PFS and then replaced that with a
relay server specifically for Janus I
think to make this fully useful I think
they may have to have a packet switching
system somewhere because relays have
this problem with like he'd want to kick
to one node on every single relay you
have to collection every single relay
which means everyone needs attention to
every way which just doesn't work but we
could do the section about back as much
you might just like make it so you
connect one relay another be let's all
connect to each other so then you have
to hop forwards but we don't currently
do this we slightly easier for just had
like backups from you basically you
think your outbound relight you couldn't
do it you said now all your days that
rely and then that relay routes it to
the correct on the relay and then it's
basically everyone makes it like gateway
node and I think it may be hard as you
work like this would require fair amount
of like thinking and work to make it
work yeah okay so moving on all right
eNOS didn't yeah so one of the pair's
got merged huzzah which means there we
are one out of two PRS because I've
separated out some stuff to make it so
that we can actually like use this you
know use this and have it you know be
functional that one is following some
designer boots from last week thank
everybody for helping with that almost
it is it the end of peers insight um a
couple of design issues came up related
to the lib p2p record validator
interface that you should take a look at
if you're interested
basically we can't figure out if things
are equal and we only seem to care about
this scenario of picking the best record
when there are many ways where you could
combine records and there's this issue
on like having a separate name sis that
I know some folks were interested in I'm
not sure if they're on the call or not
but if you care please comment so that I
can do what you want and that's all for
me
okay uh hello
or hope this is here
no yeah let's know there's no more news
on the migrations okay
Hackett managers jerks were taking off
this I mean it's all I guess but let's
see Jim or anyone come on
you have next major updates you want
include okay I mean I have one I guess I
put here jerk has been working really
hard on getting improving the speed
that's well yeah so if you want to look
at just go to the baseball fishes all
right there's a the latest issue is
critically find this
here it is it's about improving request
sharding like this we figure out which
appears to ask which blocks for which
walks this is beginning well attraction
and this point where Hayes can start
work so if you have comments or ideas
but it's well that's their other update
is I had to go talk with Alex this
morning today about a performance so I
guess well this is more package matters
update the really effective measure
stuff date but everything's good
actually okay Jessica this is he quick
sure thing I someone's added this here
and rightfully so it's a ongoing
long-running refactor to switch to using
a promise based API is for other
throughout the codebase instead of
callbacks it is it involves ipfs the p2p
I kod multi formats there are 67 repos
that need to be refactored
like link to the issue there there are
lots of good reasons for doing this
there are justifications in that issue
like things like like smaller bundle
sides better staff traces yeah stuff
like that you know just how working with
promises it is kind of a more modern way
of working in JavaScript and hopefully
we might be able to gain more people who
are interested in working with ipfs if
we don't present a like a an API that's
seen as kind of out of date in any way
so like it's there are there are reasons
go and read them and it's been going on
for a long time there are a lot of repos
and we we have not resourced people to
solely work on this during their
quarters so it's been kind of a when you
have time and get as much done as you
can
the in the issue there is a list of
those 67 repos I told you about and the
current person who is the owner of that
of that particular not necessarily donor
of the repo but the owner of the
refactor for that particular repo
there's a status emoji as you may expect
coming from an issue that I made as a
red effort at red apple for something
that hasn't been started yet orange for
a pull request and green for something
that's motion released we've currently
done around 64 percent of what we need
to do and we are the kind of notable
exception is lip e2p stuff I think that
it's mean there are many many live feeds
of the repos and only two people working
full-time on it and not working full
time on this particular endeavor and the
process of refactoring them to be
async/await based instead of callbacks
is more tricky because we're not just
refactoring async/await it's just it's
just it's - using async iterators as
well instead of a regular full stream so
the reef actors in the p2p are more
involved than just swapping from
callbacks to promises so the status is
just that we're kind of trucking through
I think we won at one repo'd that has
now surfaced as something we should
definitely work on next and get
reflected is ipfs repo and because that
is blocking a number of people I think
IP Odie did an update and that somehow
it depends on the async/await like if s
repo for GC our new async/await based
repo actually has a streaming API and we
really need that for garbage collection
so that we don't run into out of memory
problems when we have a repo that has
many many things in it and there was
another thing of the repo migration tool
which now makes
but is yet to be merged also depends on
the essent away version of ipfs replay
so we need to get that motion and done
next as a priority but we did it's worth
mentioning that we did do an exercise of
prioritizing these repos in that issue
we have weave p0 the ones that basically
have no dependencies on other modules
and then we gave the others p1 p1 p2 p3
and when we should when when abouts we
should be be refactoring them it's
tricky because every every refactor is a
breaking change there's a lot to
coordinate and it's just it's taking I
knew it was going to take a long time
it's taking longer than I expected or
wanted but we are working on it and we
will eventually get there how's that for
an update it's a great update goujian
there is so we talked about the DHT
being something that uses the datastore
interface keychain is another thing i
use it so i'm going to tackle both of
those two i'll probably try to do that
tomorrow
so that ipfs repo isn't blocked going
into JSI PFS so then we can just upgrade
all three those same time
Brad Thank You Jacob okay now my design
proposals last week we had a penis for
club so there's also issues sorry can I
make a follow-up question on the
previous topic yes I'm curious if
putting people like something that was
discussed over a thread
last week was you know what would it
look like if we did a sprint or a spike
on this or had a couple of people like
dedicate full time to this in q4 would
that like significantly improve and help
us be able to knock this thing out
instead of having it continue on for you
know at pace like we've been working on
it for like what you know six six months
and we're 64 percent so presumably we'd
have like another six months to be 100%
like what is our pathway to - that is
bringing on someone or helping people
externally in the who are not already
contributing those to pitch in on this
sort of stuff feasible um what's our
path forward yeah so it was suggested
that we could do a sprint where the Jas
core team worked solely on this like I
find it because it was started so long
ago now it's quite hard to kind of
justify that the package managers goal
other than this will make Jess I give s
significantly easier to debug
significantly easier to maintain and
work with in the long run but it's just
something that needs to be used to be
done so yeah we would progress a whole
lot faster if we had everyone working on
it in terms of getting people in to work
on it I'm hesitant to get people who
have no experience like this so there
are repos where it is literally just a
mechanical kind of swap to callbacks
sorry swapped from callbacks to promise
based interface and you know that would
be okay for the low-level kind of lippy
dippy networking stuff I'm more hesitant
to allow any just or anyone who hasn't
had experience in Libby to me at all to
work on that because it's because it's
so critical to IDF s and the way it
works so yeah if there were people who
have contributed to the repo you want to
pick up that stuff then absolutely and
we have had contributors from outside do
do this this stuff that we've had like I
think Dirk started doing this before he
was started working full-time on ipfs as
well as a number of other contributors
who you're in the community so I'm it's
definitely possible but it yeah we could
get an outside agency to do it too but
again it would be only beyond a certain
amount and we I think that you know the
ones that were very easy have been
largely done I need to double check on
that but yeah I'm just a little bit
hesitant I guess I'm not I'm not
completely averse to it yeah like I
would love to just pull everyone in a
J's core team and just say work on this
till it's done but I know that the there
are the things we want to achieve this
cause and that's largely why it hasn't
been you know done really really quickly
because it has always been a when you
get time to do this you know and
everyone's super busy the whole time
anyway so it it's just it's just taking
a long time so totally valid thank you
sir I don't know if that answers and if
any more than I had a thing at all yeah
I think the other thing to note is that
like in the thread we talked about like
there's those four core modules of like
getting the multiplexer like a
multiplexer like M Plex done getting the
connection interface done and then a
transport and multi-stream select them
because if we can concentrate on getting
those four completed
then and like creating some examples of
this is how you do those these specific
things then rolling that up the chain
can like we can start actually
outsourcing that of like if that would
be easier for people in the community to
be able to say hey this is how things
used to be done with pull streams this
is how you do that same thing with the
async iterators and now that that makes
it easier to do even in spare time or
whatever it's just having those those
examples but getting the dedicated time
to do those those four would be good
yeah I think um so we have an
implementation I've spent time this week
sorry last week working on multi stream
select and I I in my opinion it's about
90% done we have two PRS for WebSockets
and TCP transports open so they are just
in the process of being reviewed so like
we're close with that goal yes yeah
awesome thank you very much 50
so now we have design view proposals
yeah so well we finished up one last
week you can look the resolutions knit
one resolving HTTP HTML t respect this
is not I think that's something we need
and doesn't look at container so we can
do it
the issue here is we are trying to use
multi headers to configure DNS resolvers
in ifs so that we can actually use it
that's a DNS over TLS awesome
unfortunately we have an HTTP link so we
won't get up to point to need some HTM
points at a Houston point and in many
cases we actually means like include the
domain the reason of at endpoint so
there's a good in this we do say like
sausage to keep SAS domain name slash
path because almost all HTM points
actually like they expect you to pass in
a domain name it's required in aged 1.1
and most when a wouldn't out because
it's been out for unfortunately this
HP's currently defined as taking no
arguments and we already have use cases
that you live without taking any
arguments so for example if you look at
this stuff we have such HTTP slash
p2p dec web CRT best direct so you need
to figure out how to deal with this I am
going to try to phone with a puzzled by
Wednesday or whatever you know madness
meeting but yeah this is something we
see this off
we have other random questions around
the HTTP HTTP and TLS where ideally
should be /c less sh t as you compose
these things instead of having a custom
each yes same thing for WebSocket what's
outfit secure we need something to
upgrade path a lot of fun stuff
basically we need to have a conversation
about this so I would like to have a
meeting to discuss this again probably
Wednesday so we have I have some time on
Tuesday afternoon till I summarize all
this everyone yeah if you want to come
please sign up and I will turn the
scheduled meeting that can work with
everyone
walkers asks anything you need and he
refused any people that need to like you
know comment on something or heard
something or get something done yes
Ellen I have a PR open on the JSA ipfs
the i/o website and the so I think Moxie
are not working specifically on that
website anymore so it's up to us to
review and and merge that sort of thing
it was more involved because so what I
was doing was updating examples on the
website to use the new constructor for
Jess IVFs in the latest version it's
more involved because the libraries that
the website was using I don't know why
it's transpiling stuff but it's trans it
was transpiling is transporting stuff on
the site and i needed to upgrade the
library to support async/await because
it was old so the PR is way more
involved than I wanted it to be and I
could I would love for someone to have a
look at that look over it like someone
what may be more front-end focused to
have a look at that and and approve it
tell me I'm wrong or whatever something
like that and yeah
the that one that someone has put in
there be great thank you any other
blockers asks needs okay questions
parking lot okay
yes a question is like yes there so some
of the I noticed in some of the code we
don't make like very we we use
interfaces as if they're Java interfaces
and still interfaces and I'm wondering
if that's like intentional or not if we
don't really take advantage of the fact
that go let's you just define the
interface wherever it's used and say
okay we'll just put the contract on the
way the interfaces use guarantees so we
should do that in some cases like it's
just this problem half ago actually like
there really two things we use
interfaces for we use them for contracts
when it published we're saying like we
expect you to satisfy this interface it
actually yes like if I could we use for
documentation anyways and that's why we
come there I we probably should do more
of like define the interface where we
consume them but in some cases that look
requires like redefine the interfaces
over the place that's what we don't it I
think it really just depends the module
even even a case we also just use
interfaces less often sometimes we do
that because we think you know what eat
like like okay so they can kill you're
not supposed to return interfaces you
must return the concrete type but
sometimes we just use interfaces anyways
because we're saying look like we may
want to change the concrete type in
future you may want to add additional
concrete types so we're just going to
turn the coffee type ever just
confronted interface like we do this all
over the place and in mostly utter and
stuff like that he does have a cost like
if I'm type cost of allocations so need
to be more careful about this but that's
going reasons like it depends on the
case I guess so a lot of salsa just like
people came into work about this
experience but the languages they
brought those ideas instead of two
minutes go away well like if you're
looking lib p2p on the counter like you
have the host interface all kind of
stuff or the swarm the connection look
guys stuff like that that's that that's
just because like we want to abstract of
this we're saying like hey user use
these things here like here are the
types you should be using
because like you can't rely on the
concrete information basically that's
what we do that they just like as an
example of some of the issues that I
posted about like you know
Golu p2p record types I don't have to
have a long discussion with anyone about
changing the record type I could just
make a new interface and the library
it's used in the library the thing is
being consumed by and like no no global
changes to look you two people are
required in some cases yes the concern
here is like it's like if you basically
have something smokes you can form some
interface then you have to make sure the
key supports the interface the other
issues like I said like if you like if
you change one thing and add a feature
to it and then you change something else
to sailing I need something has this new
feature then anything else that might
know that feature doesn't doesn't work
this is a big one of the prime reasons
we use interface a force like basically
support department Go Go's written by
Google for Google for like like a single
monitor ethos and it works really well
in our situation you have maybe those
many different people working on these
things so that we need some point where
we could say like you know look really
things like that's like you know basis
for it's like this is the contract we
are going to satisfy so like if you
redefine the same database it up a bunch
of different actions to consume
something is it a finding it one such
application is then it's totally unclear
like when upwards happened and you can
have situations like things just don't
work for magical reasons that make sense
so talking about your that's it's good
it's good like context though just to
get like the shape of why things look
the way they do got so if you're talking
with a valley area basically you want to
add a feature validator interface like
the reason we haven't faced find here is
it then like I know that anywhere I can
find a validator and then I could pass
it off dive you guys and then it will
always like be a valid validator and I
keep looking at be pheasant peanut base
itself like we have we just store the
validator and we use it and we construct
everything and it's like if we just
define the validator at the endpoints
then like I could have one value
somewhere move out or something that's
why okay thanks dad to answer that
question any other questions for other
nope
time's up time is Fi up sorry okay Co